feat(k8s): multi-az cluster (#2124)
scaleway/docs-content: containers/kubernetes/reference-content/multi-az-clusters.mdx

```
<Message type="note">
  If your existing setup was created with the binding mode `Immediate`, it is necessary to upgrade your cluster to a newer patch version (Kubernetes >=1.24.17, >=1.25.13, >=1.26.8, >=1.27.5, or >=1.28.1). 
  This upgrade process will automatically modify the storage class to the desired `WaitForFirstConsumer` binding mode.
</Message>

Using a storage class with `volumeBindingMode` set to `WaitForFirstConsumer` is a requirement when deploying applications across multiple AZs, especially those that rely on persistent volumes. This configuration ensures that volume creation is contingent on the pod's scheduling, aligning with specific AZ prerequisites.
Creating a volume ahead of this could lead to its arbitrary placement in an AZ, which can cause attachment issues if the pod is subsequently scheduled in a different AZ. The `WaitForFirstConsumer` mode ensures that volumes are instantiated in the same AZ as their corresponding node, ensuring distribution across various AZs as pods are allocated. 
This method is an important point to maintain system resilience and operational consistency across multi-AZ deployments.

<Message type="note">

>      You now have a brief overview how to setup a multi-AZ Kubernetes Kapsule cluster on Scaleway. For further information, refer to our complete step-by-step tutorial [Deploying a multi-AZ Kubernetes cluster with Terraform and Kapsule](/tutorials/k8s-kapsule-multi-az).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     You now have a brief overview how to setup a multi-AZ Kubernetes Kapsule cluster on Scaleway. For further information, refer to our complete step-by-step tutorial [Deploying a multi-AZ Kubernetes cluster with Terraform and Kapsule](/tutorials/k8s-kapsule-multi-az/).
```

### Best practices for a multi-AZ cluster

- We recommend configuring your cluster with at least three nodes spread across at least two different AZs for better reliability and data resiliency.
- Automatically replicate persistent data and storage volumes across multiple AZs to prevent data loss and ensure seamless application performance, even if one zone experiences issues.
- Implement anti-affinity rules to distribute pods evenly across different AZs, enhancing the overall availability and resilience of your applications by preventing single points of failure.
- Ensure your load balancers are zone-aware to distribute traffic efficiently across nodes in different AZs, preventing overloading a single zone.

For more information, refer to the [official Kubernetes best practices for running clusters in multiple zones](https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/best-practices/multiple-zones/) documentation.

## Kubernetes Kapsule infrastructure setup

<Message type="note">

>      You are viewing a brief summary of setting up a multi-AZ Kubernetes cluster. For a detailed insight in the concept and step-by-step guidance, we recommend to follow our **[complete tutorial](/tutorials/k8s-kapsule-multi-az/)**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     You are viewing a brief summary of setting up a multi-AZ Kubernetes cluster. For a detailed insight in the concept and step-by-step guidance, we recommend following our **[complete tutorial](/tutorials/k8s-kapsule-multi-az/)**.
```

}

resource "scaleway_k8s_pool" "pool-multi-az" {
  for_each = {
    "fr-par-1" = 1,
    "fr-par-2" = 2,
    "fr-par-3" = 3
  }

  name                   = "pool-${each.key}"
  zone                   = each.key
  tags                   = ["multi-az"]
  cluster_id             = scaleway_k8s_cluster.kapsule_multi_az.id
  node_type              = "PRO2-XXS"
  size                   = 2
  min_size               = 2
  max_size               = 3
  autoscaling            = true
  autohealing            = true
  container_runtime      = "containerd"
  root_volume_size_in_gb = 20
}
```

After applying this Terraform configuration, the cluster and node pools will be set up across the defined AZs.

### Deployments with topologySpreadConstraints

`topologySpreadConstraints` allow for fine control over how pods are spread across your Kubernetes cluster among failure-domains such as regions, zones, nodes, and other user-defined topology domains. 
This approach ensures high availability and resiliency. For more information, refer to the [official Kubernetes Pod Topology Spread Constraints documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/topology-spread-constraints/)

> Here is an example how you can define `topologySpreadConstraints` in your deployment:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here is an example of how you can define `topologySpreadConstraints` in your deployment:
```

```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: my-resilient-app
spec:
  replicas: 6
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: resilient-app
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: resilient-app
    spec:
      topologySpreadConstraints:
      - maxSkew: 1
        topologyKey: topology.kubernetes.io/zone
        whenUnsatisfiable: DoNotSchedule
        labelSelector:
          matchLabels:
            app: resilient-app
      containers:
      - name: app
        image: my-app-image:latest
        #... other settings
```

In this example, `maxSkew` describes the maximum difference between the number of matching pods in any two topology domains of a given topology type. The `topologyKey` specifies a key for node labels. For spreading the pods evenly across zones, use `topology.kubernetes.io/zone`.

### Service with scw-loadbalancer-zone annotation

> Scaleway’s load balancer requires specific annotations to control its behavior. Here, we're using the `scw-loadbalancer-zone` annotation to specify the zone in which the load balancer is deployed.

Author: ```suggestion
Scaleway’s load balancer requires specific annotations to control its behavior. In this example, we use the `scw-loadbalancer-zone` annotation to specify the zone in which the load balancer is deployed.
```

You can confirm the presence and settings of your storage classes using the `kubectl` command shown below:

```
kubectl get storageclasses.storage.k8s.io

NAME                 PROVISIONER        RECLAIMPOLICY   VOLUMEBINDINGMODE      ALLOWVOLUMEEXPANSION   AGE
scw-bssd (default)   csi.scaleway.com   Delete          WaitForFirstConsumer   true                   131m
scw-bssd-retain      csi.scaleway.com   Retain          WaitForFirstConsumer   true                   131m
```
<Message type="note">
  If your existing setup was created with the binding mode `Immediate`, it is necessary to upgrade your cluster to a newer patch version (Kubernetes >=1.24.17, >=1.25.13, >=1.26.8, >=1.27.5, or >=1.28.1). 
  This upgrade process will automatically modify the storage class to the desired `WaitForFirstConsumer` binding mode.
</Message>

Using a storage class with `volumeBindingMode` set to `WaitForFirstConsumer` is a requirement when deploying applications across multiple AZs, especially those that rely on persistent volumes. This configuration ensures that volume creation is contingent on the pod's scheduling, aligning with specific AZ prerequisites.

> Creating a volume ahead of this could lead to its arbitrary placement in an AZ, which can cause attachment issues if the pod is subsequently scheduled in a different AZ. YThe `WaitForFirstConsumer` mode ensures that volumes are instantiated in the same AZ as their corresponding node, ensuring distribution across various AZs as pods are allocated. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Creating a volume ahead of this could lead to its arbitrary placement in an AZ, which can cause attachment issues if the pod is subsequently scheduled in a different AZ. The `WaitForFirstConsumer` mode ensures that volumes are instantiated in the same AZ as their corresponding node, ensuring distribution across various AZs as pods are allocated. 
```

This method is an important point to maintain system resilience and operational consistency across multi-AZ deployments.

> You now have a brief overview how to setup a multi-AZ Kubernetes Kapsule cluster on Scaleway. For further information, refer to our complete step-by-step tutorial [Deploying a multi-AZ Kubernetes cluster with Terraform and Kapsule](/tutorials/k8s-kapsule-multi-az).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You now have a brief overview of how to setup a multi-AZ Kubernetes Kapsule cluster on Scaleway. For further information, refer to our complete step-by-step tutorial [Deploying a multi-AZ Kubernetes cluster with Terraform and Kapsule](/tutorials/k8s-kapsule-multi-az).
```

<Message type="note">

>      You have viewed a brief summary of setting up a multi-AZ Kubernetes cluster. For a detailed insight in the concept and step-by-step guidance, we recommend to follow our **[complete tutorial](/tutorials/k8s-kapsule-multi-az/)**.

Reviewer 2: Isn't this the same info that's already stated just before?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     You now have a brief overview how to setup a multi-AZ Kubernetes Kapsule cluster on Scaleway. For further information, refer to our complete step-by-step tutorial [Deploying a multi-AZ Kubernetes cluster with Terraform and Kapsule](/tutorials/k8s-kapsule-multi-az).
```
